# Graham Klyne: CV at 2014-11-03

I have been a software developer since the mid 1970s, coding for systems from minicomputers and early microprocessors to modern-day PCs, and applications from real-time process control to high-level information management.  I have contributed to IETF, W3C and other technical specifications, and am (co)editor of several Internet and Web standards.  A common strand in this diversity has been the application of new ideas to problems.

My current interest is combining Semantic Web and linked data technology with existing web software developments.  I also have experience with Internet protocols, network application security, asynchronous-message-based distributed systems, and applications of functional programming.

I have worked with systems from bare hardware to modern virtualized systems, and languages from low-level assembly and C to high-level functional and logic languages.  I advocate agile software development techniques, by which I mean a flexible, incremental, use-case led approach.  My current tools of choice are Linux/Unix, Python and Django, but this is subject to change according to the problem at hand.

## Personal details

Education: B.Sc. (2-1) in Mathematical Studies, University of Bath, 1976.

Nationality: British

email: gk (at) acm.org

Skype/Twitter/Github: gklyne

## Experience

I am currently working on a web-based personal "linked data notebook" project ([Annalist](https://github.com/gklyne/annalist)), and am associated with Oxford University's e-Research Centre ([OeRC](http://www.oerc.ox.ac.uk)).

### 2004-2013: Academic Phase

In late 2004, joined the University of Oxford, since when I have led or worked upon a number of research projects concerned with the management and publication of research data.  This resulted in several publications, contributions to Web standards, and a number of open source software offerings.Coming from my previous standardization work for the Semantic Web, one of my goals was to better understand what it would take to make semantic web technologies useful in real applications.

During this period, I also did some work with an early _Internet of Things_ start-up company for real-time building control and "smart home" applications.

### 1997-2004: Standards Phase

I worked with a start-up, 5GM, to build a reliable email-based protocol supporting legal admissibility of electronically transferred messages, and engaged in IETF Internet Fax and messaging-related standards activities, authoring several IETF RFCs (see [publications](./20141103-publications.md)).  This led to later engagement in W3C Semantic Web specification developments.

Following the demise of 5GM, I (re)joined previous MIMEsweeper colleagues to explore and develop new product ideas.  Two ideas we worked on that were subseqently developed as products were a web-content virus scanner, and a tool for detecting pornographic images.  I also advocated a more robust, multi-faceted approach to application security based, in part, on Semantic Web ideas.

In a personal capacity I was a partner in the European 5th Framework [iTrust working group](http://www.ninebynine.org/iTrust/Intro.html), and a member of the program committee for the First, Second and Third International Conferences on Trust Management.

### 1988-1997: Network Technology Phase

I worked with Reuters on a system for foreign exchange dealing, specifically on deployment and testing of networked applications.  I went on to work for Integralis, who were early providers and supporters of cross-platform networking software, including TCP/IP and Netware protocol stacks for VAX/VMS systems.  I was pivotal in the formation of a software development group within the company, where we developed an early network address translation (NAT) gateway thas was deployed in a large London commercial bank, and the first commercial email virus scanner, MIMEsweeper.

### 1975-1986: Real-time Phase

During my time at University, I spent a year with British Steel Corporation, where we developed what I think was one of the first process-control deployments of microprocessor technology, using an Intel 8080 system to control water added in an iron-ore sintering process.  I went on to work on other microprocessor-based real-time systems, including computer-controlled slot-car racing at WS Atkins Group R&D!  I also worked on a CAD project with the British Ship Research Association and water infrastructure monitoring with Plessey.

I joined Oxford Medical Systems to develop VICON, a gait analysis system, which used TV cameras to measure and analyze human movement, based on a research system from Dundee University.  The original system was 2D only, and I researched the mathematics and implemented software for video data capture and 3D position reconstruction, for what became the first commercially available 3-D motion capture system.  The company went on to become the leading supplier of motion capture systems to the film and computer games industries ([http://www.omgplc.com]()).

